pages/Nvidia/_index.md, before:

# Foreword

There is no _official_ support for Nvidia. Unfortunately, their drivers are so
messy, and their products so random, that it's impossible for us to help if
these instructions don't work fully.

Every card seems to be random, and might work perfectly, or not work at all.

Nevertheless, it's recommended to at least try this tutorial.

## Hyprland Nvidia Patch (Arch only) (Unofficial)
```sh
hyprland-nvidia (AUR)
hyprland-nvidia-git (AUR)
```
{{< hint type=warning >}}
Hyprland Nvidia Patch is **NOT** an official patch and is not maintained by us.
If you have any concerns (updates, broken pkgbuild, etc), you should contact the maintainer.
{{< /hint >}}

{{< hint type=important >}}
`nvidia-dkms` is still **required** to run this patch, Install the `nvidia-dkms` driver and add it to your initramfs & kernel parameters before running. You should still however read the content below to make sure the patch is properly working and to avoid any bugs/crashes.
{{< /hint >}}

## How to get Hyprland to possibly work on Nvidia

Install the `nvidia-dkms` driver and add it to your initramfs & kernel parameters.  
For people using [systemd-boot](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/systemd-boot) you can do this adding `nvidia_drm.modeset=1` to the end of `/boot/loader/entries/arch.conf`.
For people using [grub](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/GRUB) you can do this by adding `nvidia_drm.modeset=1` to the end of `GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT=` in `/etc/default/grub`, then run `# grub-mkconfig -o /boot/grub/grub.cfg`
For others check out [kernel parameters](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Kernel_parameters) and how to add `nvidia_drm.modeset=1` to your specific bootloader.

in `/etc/mkinitcpio.conf` add `nvidia nvidia_modeset nvidia_uvm nvidia_drm` to your `MODULES`

run `# mkinitcpio --config /etc/mkinitcpio.conf --generate /boot/initramfs-custom.img` (make sure you have the `linux-headers` package installed first)

add a new line to `/etc/modprobe.d/nvidia.conf` (make it if it does not exist) and add the line `options nvidia-drm modeset=1`

More information is available here:
[https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/NVIDIA#DRM_kernel_mode_setting](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/NVIDIA#DRM_kernel_mode_setting)

{{< hint >}}If your GPU is listed as supported by the `nvidia-open-dkms` driver,
use that one instead. Note that on a laptop, it could cause problems with the suspended state when closing the lid, so you might be better off with `nvidia-dkms`.
{{< /hint >}}

{{< hint >}}To get multi monitor to work properly on a hybrid graphics device (a laptop with both an Intel and an Nvidia GPU), you will need to remove the `optimus-manager` package if installed (disabling the service does not work). You also need to change your BIOS settings from hybrid graphics to discrete graphics.
{{< /hint >}}

Export these variables in your hyprland config:

```sh
env = LIBVA_DRIVER_NAME,nvidia
env = XDG_SESSION_TYPE,wayland
env = GBM_BACKEND,nvidia-drm
env = __GLX_VENDOR_LIBRARY_NAME,nvidia
env = WLR_NO_HARDWARE_CURSORS,1
```

{{< hint >}}If you encounter crashes in Firefox, remove the line `env = GBM_BACKEND,nvidia-drm`.
{{< /hint >}}

{{< hint >}}If you face problems with Discord windows not displaying or screen sharing not working in Zoom, remove or comment the line `env = __GLX_VENDOR_LIBRARY_NAME,nvidia`.
{{< /hint >}}

Install `qt5-wayland`, `qt5ct` and `libva`. Additionally
`nvidia-vaapi-driver-git` (AUR) to fix crashes in some Electron-based
applications, such as Unity Hub.

Reboot your computer

Launch Hyprland.

It _should_ work now.

## Fixing screensharing / screenshots
Apply nvidia patches to the wlroots in `subprojects/wlroots` before building.
See [patch](https://aur.archlinux.org/cgit/aur.git/tree/nvidia.patch?h=hyprland-nvidia-git)
and [hyprland-nvidia-git's PKGBUILD](https://aur.archlinux.org/cgit/aur.git/tree/PKGBUILD?h=hyprland-nvidia-git#n72).

## Fixing random flickering, method 1

If you take a look at the wlroots patches in the [nix flake](https://github.com/hyprwm/Hyprland/blob/main/nix/wlroots.nix)
you will find a one-line patch:

```sh
substituteInPlace render/gles2/renderer.c --replace "glFlush();" "glFinish();"
```

What this means, for non-nix users, is you have to (before building) go to
`subprojects/wlroots/render/gles2/renderer.c` and replace all occurrences of `glFlush()`
with `glFinish()`, and then compile Hyprland as usual.

## Fixing random flickering, method 2 (nuclear)

Do note though that this forces performance mode to be active, resulting in
increased power-consumption (from 22W idle on a RTX 3070TI, to 74W).

This may not even be needed for some users, only apply these 'fixes' if you
in-fact do notice flickering artifacts from being idle for ~5 seconds.

Make a new file at `/etc/modprobe.d/nvidia.conf` and paste this in:

```sh
options nvidia NVreg_RegistryDwords="PowerMizerEnable=0x1; PerfLevelSrc=0x2222; PowerMizerLevel=0x3; PowerMizerDefault=0x3; PowerMizerDefaultAC=0x3"
```

Reboot your computer and it should be working.

Commit message:

Updated _index.md for more clarity.

pages/Nvidia/_index.md, after:

# Foreword

There is no _official_ support for Nvidia. Unfortunately, their drivers are so
messy, and their products so random, that it's impossible for us to help if
these instructions don't work fully.

Every card seems to be random, and might work perfectly, or not work at all.

Nevertheless, it's recommended to at least try this tutorial.

## Hyprland Nvidia Patch (Arch only) (Unofficial)
```sh
hyprland-nvidia (AUR)
hyprland-nvidia-git (AUR)
```
{{< hint type=warning >}}
Hyprland Nvidia Patch is **NOT** an official patch and is not maintained by us.
If you have any concerns (updates, broken pkgbuild, etc), you should contact the maintainer.
{{< /hint >}}

{{< hint type=important >}}
`nvidia-dkms` is still **required** to run this patch, Install the `nvidia-dkms` driver and add it to your initramfs & kernel parameters before running. You should still however read the content below to make sure the patch is properly working and to avoid any bugs/crashes.
{{< /hint >}}

## How to get Hyprland to possibly work on Nvidia
### Steps in General
1. Install the `nvidia-dkms` driver
2. Add NVIDIA modules to your initramfs
3. Set a kernel parameter to [enable Direct Rendering Manager on boot](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/NVIDIA#DRM_kernel_mode_setting).
#### 1. Installing the `nvidia-dkms` Driver
a. For Arch users, ensure that your kernel headers are installed, and if not, install them as necessary. The following command(s) assumes you have `sudo` permissions and are using the `linux` [kernel](https://archlinux.org/packages/?name=linux).
```
$ sudo pacman -S --needed linux-headers
```
b. If the headers are successfully installed, then you can install the `nvidia-dkms` driver as follows.
```
$ sudo pacman -S nvidia-dkms
```
> **Note**
> Whenever the driver is upgraded, initramfs needs to be updated as well. A `pacman` [hook](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/NVIDIA#pacman_hook) can help to automate this, in case this step is accidentally skipped.

#### 2. Add NVIDIA modules to your initramfs
a. For Arch users, the following four modules need to be added to `mkinitcpio.conf`. Assuming you have `sudo` permissions, open the `/etc/mkinitcpio.conf` file in an editor of your choice. Look for the line with the `MODULES` parameter, and append the following four modules to it.
```
MODULES=(<your existing modules> nvidia nvidia_modeset nvidia_uvm nvidia_drm)
```

For people using [systemd-boot](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/systemd-boot) you can do this adding `nvidia_drm.modeset=1` to the end of `/boot/loader/entries/arch.conf`.
For people using [grub](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/GRUB) you can do this by adding `nvidia_drm.modeset=1` to the end of `GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT=` in `/etc/default/grub`, then run `# grub-mkconfig -o /boot/grub/grub.cfg`
For others check out [kernel parameters](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Kernel_parameters) and how to add `nvidia_drm.modeset=1` to your specific bootloader.

in `/etc/mkinitcpio.conf` add `nvidia nvidia_modeset nvidia_uvm nvidia_drm` to your `MODULES`

run `# mkinitcpio --config /etc/mkinitcpio.conf --generate /boot/initramfs-custom.img` (make sure you have the `linux-headers` package installed first)

add a new line to `/etc/modprobe.d/nvidia.conf` (make it if it does not exist) and add the line `options nvidia-drm modeset=1`

More information is available here:
[https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/NVIDIA#DRM_kernel_mode_setting](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/NVIDIA#DRM_kernel_mode_setting)

{{< hint >}}If your GPU is listed as supported by the `nvidia-open-dkms` driver,
use that one instead. Note that on a laptop, it could cause problems with the suspended state when closing the lid, so you might be better off with `nvidia-dkms`.
{{< /hint >}}

{{< hint >}}To get multi monitor to work properly on a hybrid graphics device (a laptop with both an Intel and an Nvidia GPU), you will need to remove the `optimus-manager` package if installed (disabling the service does not work). You also need to change your BIOS settings from hybrid graphics to discrete graphics.
{{< /hint >}}

Export these variables in your hyprland config:

```sh
env = LIBVA_DRIVER_NAME,nvidia
env = XDG_SESSION_TYPE,wayland
env = GBM_BACKEND,nvidia-drm
env = __GLX_VENDOR_LIBRARY_NAME,nvidia
env = WLR_NO_HARDWARE_CURSORS,1
```

{{< hint >}}If you encounter crashes in Firefox, remove the line `env = GBM_BACKEND,nvidia-drm`.
{{< /hint >}}

{{< hint >}}If you face problems with Discord windows not displaying or screen sharing not working in Zoom, remove or comment the line `env = __GLX_VENDOR_LIBRARY_NAME,nvidia`.
{{< /hint >}}

Install `qt5-wayland`, `qt5ct` and `libva`. Additionally
`nvidia-vaapi-driver-git` (AUR) to fix crashes in some Electron-based
applications, such as Unity Hub.

Reboot your computer

Launch Hyprland.

It _should_ work now.

## Fixing screensharing / screenshots
Apply nvidia patches to the wlroots in `subprojects/wlroots` before building.
See [patch](https://aur.archlinux.org/cgit/aur.git/tree/nvidia.patch?h=hyprland-nvidia-git)
and [hyprland-nvidia-git's PKGBUILD](https://aur.archlinux.org/cgit/aur.git/tree/PKGBUILD?h=hyprland-nvidia-git#n72).

## Fixing random flickering, method 1

If you take a look at the wlroots patches in the [nix flake](https://github.com/hyprwm/Hyprland/blob/main/nix/wlroots.nix)
you will find a one-line patch:

```sh
substituteInPlace render/gles2/renderer.c --replace "glFlush();" "glFinish();"
```

What this means, for non-nix users, is you have to (before building) go to
`subprojects/wlroots/render/gles2/renderer.c` and replace all occurrences of `glFlush()`
with `glFinish()`, and then compile Hyprland as usual.

## Fixing random flickering, method 2 (nuclear)

Do note though that this forces performance mode to be active, resulting in
increased power-consumption (from 22W idle on a RTX 3070TI, to 74W).

This may not even be needed for some users, only apply these 'fixes' if you
in-fact do notice flickering artifacts from being idle for ~5 seconds.

Make a new file at `/etc/modprobe.d/nvidia.conf` and paste this in:

```sh
options nvidia NVreg_RegistryDwords="PowerMizerEnable=0x1; PerfLevelSrc=0x2222; PowerMizerLevel=0x3; PowerMizerDefault=0x3; PowerMizerDefaultAC=0x3"
```

Reboot your computer and it should be working.
